README.md, before:

# Claude Code Helper

A companion tool for Claude Code that helps developers manage bash command permissions across their projects with built-in safety features.

## What it does

Claude Code requires explicit permission to run terminal commands in your projects. This tool allows developers to:
- Define a base set of permissions that should be available across all projects
- Smart command expansion (e.g., `docker` → `docker:*`)
- Built-in safety guards against dangerous commands
- Apply permissions to multiple projects with detailed change tracking
- Backup and restore your Claude Code configuration
- Keep your permissions organized and consistent

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @light-merlin-dark/claude-code-helper
# or
npm i -g @light-merlin-dark/claude-code-helper
```

## Features

- **Permission Management**: Define and apply bash command permissions across all your Claude Code projects
- **Smart Command Expansion**: Automatically expands simple commands (e.g., `make` → `make:*`)
- **Safety Guards**: Blocks dangerous commands like `rm -rf /` and warns about risky ones
- **Detailed Change Tracking**: See exactly what permissions were added or removed per project
- **Auto-Apply**: New permissions are immediately applied to all projects (configurable)
- **Smart Discovery**: Find permissions you use frequently across projects
- **Backup/Restore**: Save snapshots of your Claude configuration before making changes
- **User Preferences**: Configure behavior via `~/.cch/preferences.json`

## Usage

```bash
cch [options]
```

### Managing Permissions

List your current permissions:
```bash
cch --list-permissions      # or use short alias: cch -lp
```

Add a new permission (with smart expansion and auto-apply):
```bash
cch --add "docker"         # Automatically expands to "docker:*" and applies
cch --add "npm run build"  # Multi-word commands are added as-is
```

Discover frequently used permissions:
```bash
cch --discover             # Analyzes your projects and suggests common permissions
cch -dp                    # Short alias
```

Remove a permission:
```bash
cch --remove 2             # Remove permission #2 (with confirmation)
cch -rm 2 --force          # Remove without confirmation
```

Apply permissions to all projects:
```bash
cch --apply-permissions    # Apply to all projects with detailed change log
cch -ap                    # Short alias
```

### Backup and Restore

Create a backup before making changes:
```bash
cch --backup-config                # Create default backup
cch --backup-config --name pre-update    # Create named backup
```

Restore from a backup if needed:
```bash
cch --restore-config               # Restore from default backup
cch --restore-config --name pre-update   # Restore specific backup
```

### Utility Commands

View your configuration:
```bash
cch --config                       # View current config and file paths
cch -c                             # Short alias
```

Check version history:
```bash
cch --changelog                    # View recent changes and updates
```


### Cleanup

Remove all Claude Code Helper data:
```bash
cch --delete-data                  # Delete all CCH data (requires confirmation)
cch -dd                            # Short alias
```

This will remove:
- Your permissions configuration
- All backup files
- User preferences
- The entire `~/.cch` directory

**Note**: Your Claude config (`~/.claude.json`) will be preserved.

### Command Aliases

For convenience, all commands have short aliases:

| Long Form | Short Alias | Description |
|-----------|-------------|-------------|
| `--list-permissions` | `-lp` | List your permissions |
| `--discover` | `-dp` | Discover frequently used permissions |
| `--add-permission` | `-add` | Add a permission (with smart expansion) |
| `--remove-permission` | `-rm` | Remove a permission by number |
| `--apply-permissions` | `-ap` | Apply permissions to all projects |
| `--backup-config` | `-bc` | Create backup |
| `--restore-config` | `-rc` | Restore backup |
| `--config` | `-c` | View configuration |
| `--changelog` | - | View version history |
| `--delete-data` | `-dd` | Delete all CCH data |
| `--name` | `-n` | Specify backup name |
| `--force` | `-f` | Skip confirmations |

## File Locations

- **Claude Config**: `~/.claude.json` (managed by Claude)
- **CCH Directory**: `~/.cch/` (all CCH data)
  - **Permissions**: `~/.cch/permissions.json`
  - **Preferences**: `~/.cch/preferences.json`
  - **Backups**: `~/.cch/backups/`

## Default Permissions

If no permissions file exists, the following safe defaults are created:
- `make:*`
- `npm run:*`
- `npm test:*`
- `git status`
- `git diff:*`
- `git log:*`

## Safety Features

### Blocked Commands
The following commands are completely blocked for safety:
- `rm -rf /` and similar destructive commands
- Fork bombs
- Disk formatting commands
- Direct disk write operations

### Warning Commands
You'll receive warnings and confirmation prompts for:
- `rm` commands without specific paths
- `chmod 777` and similar permission changes
- Commands that could affect system files

### Smart Expansion
Simple commands are automatically expanded:
- `docker` → `docker:*`
- `npm` → `npm:*`
- `make` → `make:*`

## Examples

### Setting Up Permissions for All Projects

```bash
# 1. First, backup your current configuration
cch --backup-config --name before-setup

# 2. Check your current permissions
cch -lp

# 3. Add permissions you want available in all projects
cch -add docker    # Automatically expands to docker:* and applies
cch -add yarn      # No need to type the :* anymore!
cch -add pytest    # Smart expansion handles it for you

# 4. See the detailed changes that were made
# (Each add command shows what was changed in each project)

# 5. If needed, restore your original config
cch --restore-config --name before-setup
```

### Quick Permission Updates

```bash
# See what permissions you have
cch -lp

# Add a new tool with auto-apply
cch -add cargo    # Adds cargo:* and immediately applies to all projects

# The tool shows you exactly what changed in each project
```

### Discovering Common Permissions

```bash
# Let the tool analyze your projects
cch -dp

# It will show permissions used in multiple projects:
# 1. docker:*         (used in 8 projects)
# 2. yarn:*           (used in 6 projects)
# 3. pytest:*         (used in 3 projects)

# Select which ones to add (they'll be auto-applied)
```

### Safety Examples

```bash
# Dangerous commands are blocked
cch -add "rm -rf /"
# ⛔ BLOCKED: "rm -rf /"
# This command could cause irreversible system damage

# Warnings for risky commands
cch -add rm
# ⚠️  WARNING: "rm" is a potentially dangerous permission
# Could permanently delete files
# Type "yes" to confirm:
```

## Features in Detail

### Configuration Viewer
The `--config` command shows you:
- Your current base commands
- Total number of configured projects
- All configuration file paths (clickable in many terminals)
- Available backup files with creation dates

### Version History
The `--changelog` command displays:
- Recent version updates
- New features and improvements
- Bug fixes and changes

## How It Works

Claude Code stores command permissions in `~/.claude.json` for each project. This tool:

1. **Maintains a Permissions Set**: Your commonly used permissions are stored in `~/.cch/permissions.json`
2. **Smart Expansion**: Simple commands like `docker` are automatically expanded to `docker:*`
3. **Safety First**: Dangerous commands are blocked or require confirmation
4. **Auto-Apply**: New permissions are immediately applied to all projects (configurable)
5. **Preserves Project-Specific Permissions**: Existing project permissions are kept, duplicates are removed
6. **Detailed Tracking**: Shows exactly what changed in each project
7. **Formats Correctly**: Permissions are automatically wrapped in the required `Bash()` format for Claude Code

## Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/light-merlin-dark/claude-code-helper.git
cd claude-code-helper

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Run in development
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm test

# For additional development commands, see Makefile.example
```

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Created by

[@EnchantedRobot](https://x.com/EnchantedRobot)

Commit message:

feat: Add doctor command to diagnose and fix config issues
Introduce a new `doctor` command to help users identify and resolve common
configuration problems. This command detects inconsistent tool wrapping,
duplicate tool entries, and potentially dangerous commands within the
Claude configuration. It provides interactive prompts to guide users
through fixing these issues and creates automatic backups before making
any changes.

Fix short flag parsing to correctly handle multi-character aliases like
`-lp`, `-dp`, and `-ap`. This resolves an issue where these flags were
not recognized in production environments.

Improve dangerous command detection by ensuring case insensitivity,
preventing issues with commands like `chmod -R 777` from being missed.

Update documentation in `README.md` and `CHANGELOG.md` to reflect the
new `doctor` command and its capabilities.

README.md, after:

# Claude Code Helper

A companion tool for Claude Code that helps developers manage bash command permissions across their projects with built-in safety features.

## What it does

Claude Code requires explicit permission to run terminal commands in your projects. This tool allows developers to:
- Define a base set of permissions that should be available across all projects
- Smart command expansion (e.g., `docker` → `docker:*`)
- Built-in safety guards against dangerous commands
- Apply permissions to multiple projects with detailed change tracking
- Backup and restore your Claude Code configuration
- Keep your permissions organized and consistent

## Installation

```bash
npm install -g @light-merlin-dark/claude-code-helper
# or
npm i -g @light-merlin-dark/claude-code-helper
```

## Features

- **Permission Management**: Define and apply bash command permissions across all your Claude Code projects
- **Smart Command Expansion**: Automatically expands simple commands (e.g., `make` → `make:*`)
- **Safety Guards**: Blocks dangerous commands like `rm -rf /` and warns about risky ones
- **Detailed Change Tracking**: See exactly what permissions were added or removed per project
- **Auto-Apply**: New permissions are immediately applied to all projects (configurable)
- **Smart Discovery**: Find permissions you use frequently across projects
- **Backup/Restore**: Save snapshots of your Claude configuration before making changes
- **User Preferences**: Configure behavior via `~/.cch/preferences.json`

## Usage

```bash
cch [options]
```

### Managing Permissions

List your current permissions:
```bash
cch --list-permissions      # or use short alias: cch -lp
```

Add a new permission (with smart expansion and auto-apply):
```bash
cch --add "docker"         # Automatically expands to "docker:*" and applies
cch --add "npm run build"  # Multi-word commands are added as-is
```

Discover frequently used permissions:
```bash
cch --discover             # Analyzes your projects and suggests common permissions
cch -dp                    # Short alias
```

Remove a permission:
```bash
cch --remove 2             # Remove permission #2 (with confirmation)
cch -rm 2 --force          # Remove without confirmation
```

Apply permissions to all projects:
```bash
cch --apply-permissions    # Apply to all projects with detailed change log
cch -ap                    # Short alias
```

### Backup and Restore

Create a backup before making changes:
```bash
cch --backup-config                # Create default backup
cch --backup-config --name pre-update    # Create named backup
```

Restore from a backup if needed:
```bash
cch --restore-config               # Restore from default backup
cch --restore-config --name pre-update   # Restore specific backup
```

### Utility Commands

View your configuration:
```bash
cch --config                       # View current config and file paths
cch -c                             # Short alias
```

Check version history:
```bash
cch --changelog                    # View recent changes and updates
```

Diagnose and fix configuration issues:
```bash
cch --doctor                       # Find and fix issues in your Claude config
```

The doctor command will:
- Detect inconsistent tool wrapping (some with `Bash()`, some without)
- Find duplicate tool entries
- Identify dangerous commands
- Offer to fix all issues with interactive prompts

### Cleanup

Remove all Claude Code Helper data:
```bash
cch --delete-data                  # Delete all CCH data (requires confirmation)
cch -dd                            # Short alias
```

This will remove:
- Your permissions configuration
- All backup files
- User preferences
- The entire `~/.cch` directory

**Note**: Your Claude config (`~/.claude.json`) will be preserved.

### Command Aliases

For convenience, all commands have short aliases:

| Long Form | Short Alias | Description |
|-----------|-------------|-------------|
| `--list-permissions` | `-lp` | List your permissions |
| `--discover` | `-dp` | Discover frequently used permissions |
| `--add-permission` | `-add` | Add a permission (with smart expansion) |
| `--remove-permission` | `-rm` | Remove a permission by number |
| `--apply-permissions` | `-ap` | Apply permissions to all projects |
| `--backup-config` | `-bc` | Create backup |
| `--restore-config` | `-rc` | Restore backup |
| `--config` | `-c` | View configuration |
| `--changelog` | - | View version history |
| `--doctor` | - | Diagnose and fix config issues |
| `--delete-data` | `-dd` | Delete all CCH data |
| `--name` | `-n` | Specify backup name |
| `--force` | `-f` | Skip confirmations |

## File Locations

- **Claude Config**: `~/.claude.json` (managed by Claude)
- **CCH Directory**: `~/.cch/` (all CCH data)
  - **Permissions**: `~/.cch/permissions.json`
  - **Preferences**: `~/.cch/preferences.json`
  - **Backups**: `~/.cch/backups/`

## Default Permissions

If no permissions file exists, the following safe defaults are created:
- `make:*`
- `npm run:*`
- `npm test:*`
- `git status`
- `git diff:*`
- `git log:*`

## Safety Features

### Blocked Commands
The following commands are completely blocked for safety:
- `rm -rf /` and similar destructive commands
- Fork bombs
- Disk formatting commands
- Direct disk write operations

### Warning Commands
You'll receive warnings and confirmation prompts for:
- `rm` commands without specific paths
- `chmod 777` and similar permission changes
- Commands that could affect system files

### Smart Expansion
Simple commands are automatically expanded:
- `docker` → `docker:*`
- `npm` → `npm:*`
- `make` → `make:*`

## Examples

### Setting Up Permissions for All Projects

```bash
# 1. First, backup your current configuration
cch --backup-config --name before-setup

# 2. Check your current permissions
cch -lp

# 3. Add permissions you want available in all projects
cch -add docker    # Automatically expands to docker:* and applies
cch -add yarn      # No need to type the :* anymore!
cch -add pytest    # Smart expansion handles it for you

# 4. See the detailed changes that were made
# (Each add command shows what was changed in each project)

# 5. If needed, restore your original config
cch --restore-config --name before-setup
```

### Quick Permission Updates

```bash
# See what permissions you have
cch -lp

# Add a new tool with auto-apply
cch -add cargo    # Adds cargo:* and immediately applies to all projects

# The tool shows you exactly what changed in each project
```

### Discovering Common Permissions

```bash
# Let the tool analyze your projects
cch -dp

# It will show permissions used in multiple projects:
# 1. docker:*         (used in 8 projects)
# 2. yarn:*           (used in 6 projects)
# 3. pytest:*         (used in 3 projects)

# Select which ones to add (they'll be auto-applied)
```

### Safety Examples

```bash
# Dangerous commands are blocked
cch -add "rm -rf /"
# ⛔ BLOCKED: "rm -rf /"
# This command could cause irreversible system damage

# Warnings for risky commands
cch -add rm
# ⚠️  WARNING: "rm" is a potentially dangerous permission
# Could permanently delete files
# Type "yes" to confirm:
```

## Features in Detail

### Configuration Viewer
The `--config` command shows you:
- Your current base commands
- Total number of configured projects
- All configuration file paths (clickable in many terminals)
- Available backup files with creation dates

### Version History
The `--changelog` command displays:
- Recent version updates
- New features and improvements
- Bug fixes and changes

## How It Works

Claude Code stores command permissions in `~/.claude.json` for each project. This tool:

1. **Maintains a Permissions Set**: Your commonly used permissions are stored in `~/.cch/permissions.json`
2. **Smart Expansion**: Simple commands like `docker` are automatically expanded to `docker:*`
3. **Safety First**: Dangerous commands are blocked or require confirmation
4. **Auto-Apply**: New permissions are immediately applied to all projects (configurable)
5. **Preserves Project-Specific Permissions**: Existing project permissions are kept, duplicates are removed
6. **Detailed Tracking**: Shows exactly what changed in each project
7. **Formats Correctly**: Permissions are automatically wrapped in the required `Bash()` format for Claude Code

## Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/light-merlin-dark/claude-code-helper.git
cd claude-code-helper

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build
npm run build

# Run in development
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm test

# For additional development commands, see Makefile.example
```

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Created by

[@EnchantedRobot](https://x.com/EnchantedRobot)
